Protect Your Home's Water | US EPA
Skip to main content
An official website of the United States government
Here’s how you know
Here’s how you know
Official websites use .gov
A
.gov
website belongs to an official government organization in the United States.
Secure .gov websites use HTTPS
A
lock
(
Lock
A locked padlock
) or
https://
means you’ve safely connected to the .gov website. Share sensitive information only on official, secure websites.
JavaScript appears to be disabled on this computer. Please
click here to see any active alerts
.
Menu
Search
Search
Primary navigation
Environmental Topics
Environmental Topics
Air
Bed Bugs
Chemicals, Toxics, and Pesticide
Emergency Response
Environmental Information by Location
Health
Land, Waste, and Cleanup
Lead
Mold
Radon
Research
Science Topics
Water Topics
A-Z Topic Index
Laws & Regulations
Laws & Regulations
By Business Sector
By Topic
Compliance
Enforcement
Guidance
Laws and Executive Orders
Regulations
Report a Violation
Report a Violation
Environmental Violations
Fraud, Waste or Abuse
About EPA
About EPA
Our Mission and What We Do
Headquarters Offices
Regional Offices
Labs and Research Centers
Newsroom
Planning, Budget, and Results
Organization Chart
EPA History
Breadcrumb
Home
Private Wells
Protect Your Home's Water
For more information:
Drinking Water From Household Wells
Home Water Testing
On this page:
Testing wells to safeguard your water
Prevent water well pollution
Identify potential contamination in your community
Protect your water after a natural disaster or emergency
Testing wells to safeguard your water
Testing frequency
Test your private well annually for total coliform bacteria, nitrates, total dissolved solids, and pH levels. If you suspect the presence of other contaminants, you should test for those also. You can also contact your local health department to find out what substances may be common in your area's groundwater.
You may want to test more frequently if small children or elderly adults live in your house or if someone in your house is pregnant or nursing. These segments of the population are often more vulnerable to pollutants than others.
You should also test your private well immediately if:
There are known problems with ground water or drinking water in your area
Conditions near your well have changed significantly (i.e. flooding, land disturbances, and new construction or industrial activity)
You replace or repair any part of your well system.
You notice a change in your water quality (i.e. odor, color, taste).
In addition, well owners should also determine if the ground water you rely on for household use is under direct influence from surface water. Ground water under the direct influence of surface water is susceptible to contamination from activities on the surface. Direct influence is determined on a site by site basis under state program criteria. To find a state agency to contact,
please click here
.
Identifying reasons to test your water
The chart below lists common conditions or nearby activities that well owners should be aware of and the substance(s) that you should consider testing for to ensure your well is safe. Not all of the substances listed pose an immediate or long term health problem, some impact quality of life only such as appearance, taste, and odor.
Conditions or Nearby Activities:
Test for:
Recurring gastro-intestinal illness
Coliform bacteria
Household plumbing or service lines that contain lead
pH, lead, copper
Radon in indoor air or region is radon rich
Radon
Corrosion of pipes, plumbing
Corrosion, pH, lead
Nearby areas of intensive agriculture
Nitrate, nitrite, pesticides, coliform bacteria
Coal or other mining operations nearby
Metals, pH, corrosion
Gas drilling operations nearby
Chloride, sodium, barium, strontium
Dump, junkyard, landfill, factory, gas station or dry-cleaning operation nearby
Volatile organic compounds, total dissolved solids, pH, sulfate, chloride, metals
Odor of gasoline or fuel oil, and near gas station or buried fuel tanks
Volatile organic compounds
Objectionable taste or smell
Hydrogen sulfide, corrosion, metals
Stained plumbing fixtures, laundry
Iron, copper, manganese
Salty taste and seawater, or a heavily salted roadway nearby
Chloride, total dissolved solids, sodium
Scaly residues, soaps don’t lather
Hardness
Rapid wear of water treatment equipment
pH, corrosion
Water softener needed to treat hardness
Manganese, iron
Water appears cloudy, frothy or colored
Color, detergents
Where to test your water
Only use laboratories that are certified to do drinking water testing. To find a certified laboratory in your state, you can contact:
A State Certified Laboratory in your state.
Your local health department, which may provide private well testing for free.
Test results
Your water test results should include the concentration of the substances you tested for. It may also include whether the substance concentration exceeds a national primary or secondary drinking water standard. In case your test results are not compared to EPA's national health standards, they are provided for your reference:
See the
List of Drinking Water Contaminants and their Maximum Contaminant Levels (MCL)
(6 pp, 920K,
About PDF
)
for information on Drinking Water Contaminants.
Treatment
If a contaminant is found to exceed health standards in your sample, contact your public health department for specific steps to follow and have your well re-tested to confirm the contaminant's presence and concentrations. Some problems can be handled quickly. For example, high bacteria concentrations can sometimes be controlled by adding disinfection to a well, such as: chlorine, ozone, ultra-violet light, and electronic radiation. More specific information can be found in the Center for Disease Control's
About Household Water Treatment Webpage
.
On-site treatment processes like disinfection, distillation, and filtration may remove the contaminants found in your well water. However, depending on the contaminant, its concentration, and the condition of the well, you may need a new source of water or to drill a new well.
Prevent water well pollution
Protect your water supply by carefully managing activities near the water source. For households using a domestic well, this includes keeping contaminants away from sinkholes and the well itself. Keep hazardous chemicals out of septic systems.
Slope the area around the well to drain surface runoff away from the well.
Install a well cap or sanitary seal to prevent unauthorized use of, or entry into, the well.
Keep accurate records of well maintenance, such as disinfection or sediment removal, that may require the use of chemicals in the well.
Hire a certified well driller for any new well construction, modification, or abandonment and closure.
Avoid mixing or using pesticides, fertilizers, herbicides, degreasers, fuels, and other pollutants near the well.
Do not dispose of wastes in dry wells or in abandoned wells.
Do not cut off the well casing below the land surface.
Pump and inspect septic systems as often as recommended by your local health department.
Never dispose of harsh chemicals, solvents, petroleum products, or pesticides in a septic system or dry well.
Periodically inspect exposed parts of the well for problems such as:
Cracked, corroded or damaged well casing
Broken or missing well cap
Settling and cracking of surface seals
Regularly check the integrity of any above ground and underground storage tanks that hold home heating oil, diesel, or gasoline on your property
Check with your local health department or environmental agency to ensure activities and industry on or near your property are set a safe distance from your well.
Identify potential sources of contamination in your community
In addition to the area near your drinking water well, you should be aware of other possible sources of contamination that may already be present in your community or may be moving into the area.
Consult a local expert to find out the physical and chemical properties of the groundwater you rely on and the presence of any potential drinking water contaminants. Such experts may include, but are not limited to:
Local health department officials
State environmental agency officials
Agricultural extension agents
Nearby public water system officials
Local professional geologists and civil engineers
Find out about existing and proposed facilities that may pollute your drinking water. Check the local paper for announcements or call your planning or zoning commission to find hearings or zoning appeals on development, construction or industrial projects. Attend these hearings, planning meetings, or zoning appeals. Ask questions to ensure your drinking water will be protected during construction and operation of a facility. Make sure the project has plans for managing storm water and any wastewater it might produce. Request the project's environmental impact statement to confirm it includes a review of drinking water sources.
Protect your water after a natural disaster or emergency
Flooding, earth quakes, landslides, and other natural disasters can impact the safety of your drinking water by allowing contaminants to enter your private well system. If you suspect your drinking water well may be contaminated after a flood or another natural disaster, contact your local or state health department or environmental agency for advice on inspecting and testing your well. If possible, use a contractor with experience in servicing drinking water wells to inspect and test your well.
Water well flood response steps
Stay away from the well pump while flooded to avoid electric shock.
Do not drink or wash from the flooded well to avoid becoming sick.
Get assistance from a well or pump contractor to clean and disinfect your well before turning on the pump.
After the pump is turned back on, pump the well until the water runs clear to rid the well of flood water.
If the water does not run clear, get advice from the county or state health department or extension service.
EPA provides more specific steps for well owners to follow in its short guide
"What to do After the Flood"
.
Water well natural disaster and emergency response
Flooding is a common cause of private well contamination. However, there are other emergencies which can impact well water safety. The Center for Disease Control (CDC) has a website dedicated to
preparing for, responding to, and surviving natural disasters and severe weather
.
Helpful CDC pages for well owners:
Disinfecting wells after a disaster
Dealing with flood water safely
Information on other types of emergencies
Private Wells
Open Sidenav Menu
Close Sidenav Menu
Protect Your Home's Water
Learn About Private Water Wells
Well Water Contaminants
Well Safety Publications
expand or collapse the child menu
Infographic
State Program Directory
Contact Us About Private Wells
Contact Us About Private Wells
to ask a question, provide feedback, or report a problem.
Last updated on February 26, 2026
Assistance
Spanish
Arabic
Chinese (simplified)
Chinese (traditional)
French
Haitian Creole
Korean
Portuguese
Russian
Tagalog
Vietnamese
Discover.
Accessibility Statement
Budget & Performance
Contracting
EPA www Web Snapshot
Grants
No FEAR Act Data
Plain Writing
Privacy and Security Notice
Connect.
Data
Inspector General
Jobs
Newsroom
Regulations.gov
Subscribe
USA.gov
White House
Ask.
Contact EPA
EPA Disclaimers
Hotlines
FOIA Requests
Frequent Questions
Site Feedback
Follow.