Tennessee Clean (TN Clean) Skip to Main Content Go to TN.gov Go to TN.gov Section Go to Environment & Conservation (TDEC) Program Areas Recycling Markets Air Archaeology Bureau of Conservation Energy Environmental Stewardship Tennessee Geological Survey Mineral & Geologic Resources Natural Areas Outdoor Recreation Policy & Planning Radiological Health Remediation Branch Small Business Environmental Assistance Waste Management Branch Underground Storage Tanks Water Permitting Air Permits Archaeology Permit Mineral & Geologic Resources Permits Natural Areas License and Permits Radiological Health Licenses and Registrations Waste Permits Water Permits Other Permits Efficiency Reports Public Participation Air Notices & Hearings Energy Notices & Hearings Mineral & Geologic Notices & Hearings Natural Areas Notices & Hearings Radiation Notices & Hearings Remediation Notices & Hearings TN State Parks Notices & Hearings UST Notices & Hearings Waste Notices & Hearings Water Notices & Hearings TDEC General Notices About Communications Leadership Stakeholder Engagement External Affairs Boards & Commissions Financial Assurance Grants Department Policies Vendor Opportunities Employment & Internships TDEC Annual Reports Contact Field Offices Ask TDEC Questions Public Records Request Customer Service Survey Language Assistance Calendar of Events American Rescue Plan (ARP) Success Stories TDEC Newsroom Print This Page Print This Page Go to Search We are reorganizing pages for a better experience. We appreciate your patience! Remediation Branch Oak Ridge Reservation (ORR) Facts Environmental Management Disposal Facility Environmental Monitoring How can I get involved? Natural Resources Damage Assessment and Restoration (NRDAR) Brownfield Grants and Resources Brownfields Federal Grant Assistance Brownfield Resources Brownfield Redevelopment Area Grant (BRAG) Brownfield VOAP Is My Property Contaminated? Who can participate in VOAP? Addressing a Project Under VOAP Resources Meth Contamination Drycleaning Active Drycleaners Cleanup of Contaminated Drycleaner Sites Drycleaning Solvent Suppliers Drycleaner Approved Contractors Current Fees and Forms for Drycleaners Best Management Practices < Back to Drycleaners Tennessee Clean TN Clean Overview Story Map Hazardous Waste Remedial Action Fees Filling out form RF-FDS Success Stories Ongoing Projects Inactive Hazardous Substance Sites (Promulgated List) Proposed Oak Ridge EMDF Former Monsanto Chemical Defense Depot Memphis Copper Basin Laws, Rules, & Guidance Screening Levels Remediation Notices & Hearings Record Requests and Data Viewers Contact DOR Tennessee Clean Tennessee Clean Learn more about the Tennessee Clean sites A new name for our Division! The Division of Remediation and the Division of Solid Waste Management have merged to form the Division of Land Protection (DLP). This change reflects TDEC’s lifecycle approach to environmental protection—preventing contamination releases where possible, promoting waste minimization and material reuse, and restoring properties when contamination occurs. As we make this transition, you may still see references to the “Division of Remediation” or the “Division of Land Protection - Remediation Branch.” Our website will also be updated in the coming months. Although our name is changing, our commitment to protecting human health and the environment remains the same. Tennessee Clean (TN Clean) is a program to revitalize some of Tennessee’s most downtrodden and polluted sites. The sites on the TN Clean list were former industrial facilities such as dry cleaners, metals smelters, automobile recyclers, assembly plants, and more that were polluted by industry. The State is obligated to fund investigation and cleanup of existing pollution on these sites which could be impacting human health, the environment, and their communities’ economic growth potential. Many of these sites have languished for years and remain unsuitable for redevelopment. The State of Tennessee has inherited responsibility for these sites, though, until recently, many had no remaining funding to clean them up. In 2022, Governor Bill Lee and the Legislature began to set aside funding for the State to investigate and remediate these sites. Investment through TN Clean will improve Tennessee’s environment, support economic growth, and promote community vitality and sustainability by unlocking acres for redevelopment and opportunity that had been previously considered unusable. Most TN Clean sites are managed by TDEC’s Division of Land Protection - Remediation Branch, though several sites belong to the Division of Solid Waste Management, and one site falls under the jurisdiction of the Division of Radiological Heath. Explore the tabs below to see each division's TN Clean sites or click the button below to explore the ArcGIS StoryMap describing the TN Clean program. Explore the TN Clean Sites Current TN Clean Sites East TN Sites Middle TN Sites West TN Sites Division of Land Protection - Remediation Branch Atomic City Auto (Oak Ridge, Anderson County) The Atomic City Auto Parts site was a former automobile junkyard and scrap metal recycling facility located in Oak Ridge. DoR used a state remediation contractor to complete an interim removal action in 2003-2004 as part of a negotiated agreement with US Department of Energy (DOE), who was the responsible party. Contaminated soil and debris was excavated and removed for offsite. TDEC conducted a cleanup of this site that was completed in 2005. Based upon a review of TDEC's confirmatory sampling conducted after cleanup was completed, the DOE believes that TDEC 's cleanup objectives for the site have been met and TDEC concurred in a letter to DOE in October 2021. The only remaining actions for this site are development of a Risk Assessment (assigned to DOE), development of a Record of Decision, recording of a Notice of Land Use Restriction (NLUR) and the delisting process.  No further remediation is required. Former Mark IV Electro-Voice (Newport, Cocke County) This property was an audio speaker assembly plant for the company Electro-Voice, previously owned by Mark IV Industries. The assembly plant was in operation from the mid 1960s until 2001. This former industrial site has been monitored since 2001 for chlorinated solvent chemicals that leaked from an underground storage tank. Groundwater, soil, and air on this property have been sampled for these cleaning chemicals to ensure that the concentrations are low enough to be safe for workers on the site now and in the future.  Groundwater contamination is currently present in three monitoring wells at the property. Explore the Mark IV StoryMap Wall Tube & Metal (Newport, Cocke County) Wall Tube & Metal Products operated at the site from 1956 to 1983, manufacturing steel tubing and conducting metal plating and fabrication activities for industrial and commercial applications. Since 1983, multiple manufacturers have operated at the site. The property encompasses approximately 16 acres and is currently used for furniture manufacturing. Previous and ongoing investigations have identified chlorinated solvents as a primary chemical of concern. Chlorinated solvents have been detected in groundwater at the site, with detections also identified historically in off-site surface water downgradient from the site. In 1985, waste materials associated with prior operations were removed. A TDEC report issued in 1986 identified metal plating sludge, paint sludge, and chlorinated solvents as contaminants of concern at the site. During the late 1980s and early 1990s, TDEC and the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency evaluated the nature and extent of contamination and developed remedial plans. In 1997, the Tennessee Department of Remediation removed 350 cubic yards of contaminated soil from the facility. A site investigation conducted in 2005 found that chlorinated solvent contamination remained present in groundwater and indicated the potential for off-site migration. Recent groundwater investigations conducted since 2023 indicate that chlorinated solvent contamination in groundwater has the potential to be migrating off-site. Ongoing groundwater, soil gas, and indoor air investigations are being conducted to further define the extent of contamination and refine understanding of site conditions. Explore the Wall Tube & Metal StoryMap Velsicol Residue Hill (Chattanooga, Hamilton County) Between 1963 and 1974, Velsicol Chemical Plant disposed of herbicide and pesticide residues in drums on a neighboring property, now known as “Residue Hill”. They also used settling ponds on the hill to remove some chemicals from wastewater. Open pits used for waste disposal were covered by a clay cap in 1973, when site investigations showed contamination in groundwater and soil at the site. The EPA removed some of the waste in the 1970s before an 18-acre cap was installed over the landfill to prevent contamination in surface waters and air pathways. Groundwater has been monitored since 1980. A thorough assessment of groundwater and soil has been launched in 2023 to identify current concentrations of herbicides and pesticides and their chemical byproducts. Benzoic acid was identified as the largest contributor of contamination, along with lower concentrations of VOCs and pesticides. Explore the Velsicol Residue Hill StoryMap Morningside Chemical (Chattanooga, Hamilton County) Morningside Chemical manufactured dyestuffs for the carpet industry from 1978 until 1983, when the property changed hands. Morningside bought the 1.5-acre property in 1976, after a fire at the site had put its previous owners (Vol State Chemical Company) out of business. The fire in 1976 damaged several tons of industrial chemicals owned by Vol State Chemical, the previous owners of the property, which were then buried illegally in trenches on the property. In 1985, The TN Department of Health and Environment (predecessor of TDEC) received an anonymous complaint alleging that hazardous chemicals were illegally disposed of and stored in the facility’s basement. Upon inspection, it was discovered that 170 drums had been placed in the basement after the 1976 fire leveled the warehouse, and up to 40,000 gallons of contaminated water filled the basement. In 1993, 625 drums containing acids, bases, and dyes were found in a different warehouse on the site, at which point the US EPA conducted an emergency removal of the waste. The most recent sampling event in 2003 indicated that groundwater is impacted by metals, volatile organic compounds (VOCs), and semi-volatile organic compounds. TDEC is investigating the site today to evaluate current levels of contamination to inform potential remedial action. Explore the Morningside Chemical StoryMap Red Ridge Landfill (Sweetwater, Monroe County) This 39-acre site contains a former landfill that contains municipal and industrial waste. The landfill operated from 1971 until 1979, when it was improperly capped and closed. Portions of the landfill were sold as residential properties. In 1988, well water in private drinking wells was sampled and organic contaminants were detected. The US EPA found that local groundwater, soil, sediment, and surface water were all contaminated with organic and inorganic compounds from the landfill. The landfill sits on a limestone ridge, providing karst transport of contaminants into groundwater. In 2002, the landfill was properly capped and gas vents were installed. Today, TN Clean is taking financial responsibility for the site to continue annual inspections and other routine maintenance.  No remediation is required. Rockwood Iron & Metal (Rockwood, Roane County) This site’s industrial history dates back to 1897, when Roane Iron Company produced iron products there. Various industrial operations have taken place on the site, including coal mining, coke fuel production, pig iron production, and automobile shredding. Automobile shredding – the shredding of seats, carpets, and other soft car parts – took place on the site from 1974 to 1987. These shredding operations left piles of automobile shredder residue containing plastics, rubber, wood, fabric, glass, metal fragments, and contaminants such as metals, PAHs, and PCBs on the site. From 2001-2004, TDEC devised and implemented a plan to consolidate and cap the residue into three piles and to install a leachate treatment system. The site has been inspected regularly inspected since 2004 and operation, monitoring, and maintenance of the landfill has continued since then. This remedial action was paid for by the responsible party until they filed for bankruptcy in 2016, and the State picked up the liability for the site. TDEC is currently reassessing the site with TN Clean funds and continuing operation and maintenance activities. Explore the Rockwood Iron & Metal StoryMap Joyner Scrap Yard (Kingston, Roane County) The Joyner Scrap Yard operated on this property in Kingston from purchase in 1967 until 1988. Mr. Joyner purchased scrap and surplus items from the US Department of Energy (DoE) and resold them to the public, leaving behind metals, PCBs, and radiological contamination on the site property. From 1997-1999, TDEC surveyed and removed all radiologically contaminated items from the site, and removed chemically hazardous materials in 2000. It is believed that all radioactive items and containers of hazardous chemicals have been removed from the property, but an investigation in 2001 concluded that soils and groundwater were still significantly contaminated and warrant further investigation and possible remedial action to fully restore the site. Today, TDEC is reinvestigating monitoring wells on the site to assess groundwater contamination and conducting soil sampling to assess remaining contamination in the soil so that remedial strategies can be deployed to restore this site to full productive use. Explore the Joyner Scrap Yard StoryMap Roscoe Fields Site (Knoxville, Knox County) In 1994, TDEC responded to a report that abandoned drums had been discovered on a property owned by Mr. Roscoe Fields. Upon inspection, the drums appeared to have been purchased by the Department of Energy (DOE) in the 1970s from their Oak Ridge facility. A radiological survey indicated that several drums had radiation readings above background levels, and an emergency removal was conducted. During this removal, 239 drums, 390,780 pounds of contaminated soil beneath the drums, and miscellaneous scrap material from the DOE were characterized and disposed of. Contaminants detected in the waste included metals, VOCs, PCBs, cyanide, and radioactive isotopes of uranium. Today, TDEC is reexamining the site to assess the current state of contamination of groundwater. Explore the Roscoe Fields StoryMap Dixie Barrel & Drum (Knoxville, Knox County) From 1971 to 2002, the Dixie Barrel & Drum Co, Inc., operated a plastic and steel drum recycling and reconditioning facility. Permitted to accept drums containing on more than 1 inch of product remaining, drum material would be emptied into on-site storage tanks before the drums would be cleaned and restored through chemical processes. In 1980, testing of waste material indicated the presence of pesticides, heavy metals in the sludge, and the facility was subjected to hazardous waste regulations by TDEC. In 2002, the facility filed for bankruptcy and was abandoned. The Division of Land Protection (formerly the Division of Remediation) inspected the facility in 2003 and found large quantities of potentially hazardous substances. Drums were stored next to incompatible chemicals, evaluating the risk of fire and explosion, and the spillage collection system had been leaking oil into the concrete block walls of the building. The division referred the site to the EPA’s Emergency Response and Removal Branch (ERRB). The ERRB removed approximately 1500 drums, a waste pile of scrap metal and crushed drums, above ground storage tanks, and 592 tons of contaminated soil from the site in 2005. The main building was demolished in 2010. There is no work left to be done with the TN Clean funds. Division of Land Protection - Waste Management Branch Liberty Fibers Corporation (Morristown, Hamblen County) Learn more about the Division of Land Protection - Waste Management Branch . Wheland Foundry St. Elmo Landfill (Chattanooga, Hamilton County) Learn more about the Division of Land Protection - Waste Management Branch . DP Holdings (Blountville, Sullivan County) Learn more about the Division of Land Protection - Waste Management Branch . Sullivan County Landfill, Inc. (Blountville, Sullivan County) Learn more about the Division of Land Protection - Waste Management Branch . Division of Radiological Health Former American Nuclear Corporation (Oak Ridge, Anderson County) The American Nuclear Corporation site, located in Clinton, TN, began operation in 1962. The facility was licensed by the Atomic Energy Commission to manufacture radiological sources for medical institutions. By 1972, after several years of operational issues and contamination events, the State took possession of the site in the mid to late 1980’s to prevent further misuse of the property. Since 1993, Environmental Monitoring personnel with the Tennessee Division of Radiological Health (DRH) have monitored the site for any changes in detectable radioactivity or movement of radionuclides on or off the site due to environmental factors. During monthly visits to the site, survey readings are collected inside and outside the perimeter fence. During this monthly survey, a water sample is also collected from spring that leaves the ANC property. TDEC contacted EPA for assistance remediating the site in 2023 and remediation of the site was officially completed in 2025. Learn more about the Division of Radiological Health . Explore the American Nuclear StoryMap Division of Remediation Murray Ohio Plant (Lawrenceburg, Lawrence County) The Old Murray Ohio plant in Lawrenceburg, TN was a producer of bicycle parts and lawn mowers from its construction in 1956 until closure in 2005. An environmental assessment in 2006 found contamination in groundwater. A variety of contaminant types were identified, including metals, VOCs, chlorinated solvents, and petroleum products. The facility stored its hazardous waste in drums on site; some contamination may have been contributed through leakage of these drums or through their production and use during manufacturing. Although limited assessment has been performed, the site will require a complete site characterization to determine the nature and extent of contamination. Explore the Murray Ohio StoryMap Old Waynesboro City Dump (Waynesboro, Wayne County) In the 1960s and 1970s, this landfill accepted household and industrial wastes, the latter containing PCB, VOCs, and chlorinated solvent contaminants. Water quality issues arose in the 1970s, and the landfill was covered with a 2-foot clay cap in 1982. Concrete drainage channels and a clay-lined settling pond were installed to divert stormwater and collect potential leachate. In 2010, TDEC sampled the adjacent Beech Creek, drinking water wells, sediment, and surface water wells; PCBs were identified in Beech Creek sediment and floodplain soil. Soil and sediment containing elevated levels of PCBs was removed in 2015-2016. TDEC is reinvestigating the site to determine current groundwater conditions and characterize seeps that may be present at the base of the dump. Explore the Old Waynesboro Dump StoryMap Division of Solid Waste Management Dana Corporation (Hohenwald, Lewis County) Learn more about the Division of Solid Waste Management . Duromatic (Campaign, Warren County) Learn more about the Division of Solid Waste Management . Division of Remediation Boone Dry Cleaners (Jackson, Madison County) A drycleaner operated at the site from 1945-1977. In 1992, the site’s soil and groundwater were found to be contaminated with several chlorinated chemical that had leaked from an underground storage tank. The site has been monitored and tested since 1997 to define the contaminated area. Contamination was found to have spread beyond the site boundaries into neighboring properties.  Several Injections of maple syrup, soybean oil, and simple green emulsion into injection wells in the ground began in 2002 to encourage biological activity at the site. This continued for about a year. A source area approximately 22 feet by 22 feet and about 12 feet deep was discovered where the building used to sit. Later in 2004, about 215 cubic feet of contaminated soil was removed. Sodium lactate was added to the bottom of the pit to sustain biological activity; the pit was then refilled with clean gravel and soil. Since 2004, about every 6 months sodium lactate is added to the onsite injection wells. The onsite wells are sampled to evaluate the effectiveness of the injections. Although concentrations in groundwater have decreased due to the various injection activities, significant contamination remains. Explore the Boone Dry Cleaners StoryMap Creotox (Memphis, Shelby County) The Creotox Chemical Company was a pesticide blending facility from approximately 1946 to 1991. The TDEC Division of Solid Waste Management conducted an inspection of the property in 1985 which indicated there was some spillage of pesticide chemicals around the facility. Drums containing hazardous substances were found in the facility in 1995, and subsequently removed after soil testing showed contamination in a nearby drainage ditch. The EPA conducted an emergency removal of 45 cubic yards of hazardous debris, 3 drums of hazardous liquids and solids, 3 drums of non-hazardous solids, and 2,117 tons of contaminated soils, which was completed in 1997. Soil and groundwater were tested again in 2003 and once more in 2007. The presence of contaminants in groundwater have been decreasing, though there is some evidence of contaminants move downgradient with groundwater flow. TDEC has conducted significant remedial work on this site in the past, and it is almost ready to be made available for reuse. Explore the Creotox StoryMap Chromasco (Memphis, Shelby County) The Chromium Mining and Smelting Corporation (Chromasco) smelted metals in Memphis from the early 1950s until 1984. This 92-acre site has been monitored since the 1980s for metals, notably chromium and arsenic, in groundwater, soil, sediment, and surface waters. Contaminated sediment, soil, and drums containing waste were excavated and removed from the site in 2000, but recent sampling indicated that there is still some remaining contamination. The site is currently being evaluated to assess the protectiveness of prior site remedial activities and institutional controls. Explore the Chromasco StoryMap John Little Drum (Memphis, Shelby County) The National Paper and Chemical company operated in Memphis from 1946 until the mid-1970s. After the company closed, the operator, John Little, stored more than twenty-five 55-gallon drums and numerous smaller containers of dry-cleaning chemicals and a large quantity of paper products in a vacant building on the property. Vandalism and lack of maintenance led to disarray and chemical spills in the building in the mid-1980s. In 1986, TDEC and the Memphis Fire Department inspected the facility after receiving a complaint about the stored drums and conducted an emergency removal in 1987, and the building was subsequently demolished. Investigations of the soil and groundwater in the 1990s indicated elevated levels of chlorinated dry cleaning chemicals and daughter products. Neighboring properties also showed elevated levels of these chemicals in the soil and soil vapor. TDEC is currently working to identify and remove source material in the soil and potentially groundwater to remediate the site. Explore the John Little Drum StoryMap Henry County Boneyard (Paris, Henry County) This 15-acre area was used as a gravel excavation pit until it was abandoned. Thereafter it was used to store old highway equipment. In the mid-1970s, several 55-gallon drums containing paint wastes were buried illegally at the site and began leaking. The site was investigated by the former Tennessee Department of Health and Environment in 1982. The Boneyard was promulgated as a State Superfund site in 1987. After this designation, the TDoR tested the soil and groundwater at the Boneyard throughout the 1990s. Approximately 4800 cubic yards of contaminated soil, drums, and debris were removed in 1994 and replaced with clean soil. The site is currently being monitored to assess the migration of these chemicals in the groundwater to neighboring properties. Explore the Henry County Boneyard StoryMap Fiberfine (Memphis, Shelby County) Fiberfine is the site of an inactive rock wool manufacturing plant. Rock wool is made by melting rock and spinning it into fibers, which also produces slag wool as waste. The slag, which contains lead and other heavy metals, was disposed of in a pile on site along with contaminated soil and sediment. When the factory was demolished in 1994, some of the slag was pushed into a nearby wetland area, causing contamination. The EPA excavated 5,000 cubic yards of waste slag and 16,000 yards of contaminated soil and disposed of them in a properly capped pile. Further sampling of site soils and groundwater is required to verify proper/current characterization of site impacts and if contaminant migration has occurred. Explore the Fiberfine StoryMap Chapman Chemical (Memphis, Shelby County) Chapman Chemical began producing wood preservatives and agricultural chemicals in 1941. Through the production of an herbicide, a sodium chloride byproduct containing arsenic and pesticides was stored in a 0.5-acre salt pond on the property. The property was sold to Valley Products, Inc., in 1994 and was subsequently investigated for contamination. The pond was filled in with clean dirt and covered with gravel and asphalt in 2000. The site has not been sampled since 2000, so TDEC is reinvestigating the site today to determine the efficacy of the asphalt cap to stop transport of contaminants. Explore the Chapman Chemical StoryMap Division of Solid Waste Management Former EWS Landfill (Camden, Benton County) Learn more about the Division of Solid Waste Management . Social Media facebook youtube linkedin Programs Air Environmental Stewardship Solid Waste Underground Storage Tanks Water Resources Accessibility Dataviewers Employment and Internships Enforcement Orders Grants Non-Discrimination Featured Links TDEC Annual Reports Field Offices Natural Areas State Parks The Tennessee Conservationist Partner Links TN Historical Commission Sustainable Tourism TN Promise U.S. EPA Department of Environment & Conservation David W. Salyers, P.E., P.G. Davy Crockett Tower 500 James Robertson Parkway Nashville, TN 37243 (888) 891-TDEC (8332) Email Questions to TDEC Flag Status Chat Help Translate Font Size a- Normal A+ TN.gov Services TN.gov Directory Transparent TN Web Policies Mobile App About Tennessee Title VI Accessibility Help & Contact Survey Close