Landfill Information | Murfreesboro, TN - Official Website Skip to Main Content Create a Website Account - Manage notification subscriptions, save form progress and more. Website Sign In Your Government Our Residents For Visitors Doing Business I Want To Search Report Odor Complaints - Middle Point Landfill 2022: Mayor Shane McFarland's Announcement Regarding Lawsuit Court Affirms Board's Decision to Deny Landfill Expansion Joint Statement on Middle Point Landfill Long-Fought Victory for Murfreesboro Residents Proposed Landfill Settlement Details City Council Votes to Reject Proposed Settlement Agreement Home Our Residents Landfill Information Landfill Information Report Odor Complaints - Middle Point Landfill The City of Murfreesboro launched an Odor Reporting Portal for the public to report odors and/or gas believed to be coming from the Middle Point Landfill. Court Halts Vertical Expansion of Landfill in Ruling for the City of Murfreesboro February 10, 2026: The Chancery Court of Davidson County granted the City of Murfreesboro a writ of mandamus, directing that TDEC must cease processing BFI’s application for a vertical expansion of the Middle Point Landfill. BFI tried to circumvent the normal statutory regional board review and instead jumped to filing an application with TDEC for a vertical expansion that would place a 70-foot-high landfill on top of the existing landfill, adding an estimated 19 million tons of waste to Middle Point. The City of Murfreesboro filed a lawsuit in December to halt TDEC’s review of the application until BFI complied with the Solid Waste Management Act.  The City asked the Court to stop TDEC from processing BFI’s vertical expansion application until BFI first submits its application to the Regional Board for local review, including a public hearing where citizens must be afforded an opportunity for public comment.  After reviewing the City’s complaint, the Court directed TDEC to halt the review process. BFI’s proposed expansion comes after the City has expressed numerous concerns regarding the environmental safety of the landfill and its impact on Rutherford County citizens.  In the pending federal lawsuit against Republic and BFI, the City recently sent notices of additional and continued violations of the Clean Water Act and Clean Air Act due to test results showing continued discharges of landfill leachate into the East Fork Stones River, which provides drinking water for Rutherford County and City of Murfreesboro residents. Murfreesboro - Complaint with Exhibits 12.22.25 (7020112.1) (PDF) Issuance of the Fiat (PDF) ----------------------------------------------------- City of Murfreesboro sends notice of additional Clean Air and Clear Water violations to Middle Point Landfill Amid Increasing Violations and Odor Complaints Violations of the Clean Air Act (PDF) Violations of the Clean Water Act (PDF) ----------------------------------------------------- City of Murfreesboro Files Lawsuit To Prevent BFI From Circumventing State Law and Eliminating Local Review and Public Comment on Significant Vertical Expansion of Middle Point Landfill December 2, 2025: BFI has chosen to attempt to circumvent the normal statutory and regulatory obligations required by law and has filed an application with the Tennessee Department of Environment and Conservation (“TDEC”) for a significant vertical expansion of Middle Point Landfill. This vertical expansion requests placing a 70-foot high landfill on top of the existing landfill, adding an estimated 19 million tons of waste to the existing landfill.  According to BFI’s projections, this would extend the site life of the landfill by an additional 14 years to 2046 and result in 39 percent more garbage being added to the landfill. In filing this application with TDEC, BFI has circumvented the statutory process which allows for local review and public comment. In turn, BFI has effectively deprived the citizens of Murfreesboro and Rutherford County to weigh in on this vertical expansion, which is the very community this expansion would affect. The Central Tennessee Regional Solid Waste Planning Board and the City of Murfreesboro, Tennessee filed this lawsuit Monday evening in the Rutherford County Chancery Court asking the Court to force BFI to comply with its legal obligations. This proposed expansion comes after the City has expressed numerous concerns regarding the environmental safety of the landfill on Rutherford County citizens. Most recently, the Middle Point Landfill received an alarming seven environmental violations in just the last year and the City has received more than 4,000 complaints related to odor at the landfill from the public portal. In the pending federal lawsuit against Republic and BFI, the City sent notices of additional and continued violations of the Clean Water Act and Clean Air Act due to test results showing continued discharges of landfill leachate into the East Fork Stones River, which provides drinking water for Rutherford County and City of Murfreesboro residents. Exhibit 1__Excerpts from TDEC Expansion Application Exhibit 2_Excerpt of BFI Chancery Court Brief Murfreesboro - BFI Complaint re Part 8 Vertical Expansion ----------------------------------------------------- On September 15, 2025 , the City of Murfreesboro sent the owners of Middle Point Landfill notice of additional and continued violations of the Clean Water Act and Clean Air Act. These violations are on top of prior violations that spurred the City to sue Middle Point’s owners, Republic Services, Inc. and BFI Waste Systems of Tennessee, LLC, in August 2022. The additional Clean Water Act notice details new test results showing continued discharges of landfill leachate into the East Fork Stones River, which provides drinking water for Rutherford County and City of Murfreesboro residents. The leachate also contains harmful chemicals, including PFAS. Known as “forever chemicals” these contaminants have been linked to cancer, immune system damage, and reproductive health risks. Forever chemicals do not biodegrade or break down in nature, lingering in the environment for generations. The City has found continuous discharges of leachate that include PFAS, aluminum, and ammonia at outfall sites near the landfill. Contaminants have been found near Walter Hill Recreational Area, a popular destination for local families, and near the intake pipe for the Stones River Water Treatment Plant. The City has also notified Middle Point Landfill of additional Clean Air Act violations, which include problems with the gas collection wells, excessive emissions, malfunction of the landfill’s gas collection system, and issues with reporting the volume of air emissions from the landfill. The City must give notice of these violations to the landfill, as well as state and federal regulators, before amending its lawsuit to include these violations in the pending litigation. Mayor McFarland’s Announcement Regarding Lawsuit August 10, 2022: The Murfreesboro City Council authorized a federal lawsuit against Republic Services, Inc., BFI Waste Services of Tennessee, LLC, and Republic Services of Tennessee, LLC to address ongoing environmental problems at Middle Point Landfill. Federal filed complaint by the City of Murfreesboro EPA Lifetime Drinking Water Health Advisory for Four Perfluoroalkyl Substances (PFAS) Federal Register Notice EPA Drinking Water Health Advisory for PFAS Fact Sheet for Communities Watch Mayor's Announcement Court Affirms Board’s Decision to Deny BFI’s Application to Expand Landfill September 8, 2024: Davidson County Chancellor Russell T. Perkins issued a decision affirming the decision of the Central Tennessee Regional Solid Waste Planning Board to deny BFI Waste System of Tennessee’s application to construct a new landfill adjacent to BFI’s current operations at Middle Point. In explaining his decision, Chancellor Perkins noted that there was “substantial and material evidence” that supported “the Board’s determination that BFI’s application is inconsistent with the Central Region’s current Regional Plan.” BFI’s application called for the construction of a new landfill on 99 acres along Jefferson Pike. The proposed site is adjacent to the existing 200-acre Middle Point Landfill located along the East Fork of the Stones River. Under state law, the Regional Planning Board is required to consider and either approve or deny Republic’s application before TDEC can commence its own review. BFI had filed the lawsuit in Davidson County Chancery Court seeking to overturn the Board’s unanimous July 9, 2021, decision to deny the application. The City became a party to that lawsuit in November 2021. Commenting on today’s decision, Mayor Shane McFarland stated: “The City Council voted to intervene in the lawsuit on behalf of the Regional Board to ensure that the concerns of thousands of Murfreesboro residents were represented and heard. Today’s decision is the latest development in the battle against the construction of a new landfill at Middle Point. It’s a big win for the community. The City will remain steadfastly opposed to any expansion of the landfilling operations at Middle Point.” Mayors McFarland and Carr Joint Statement January 30, 2025: County Mayor Joe Carr and City Mayor Shane McFarland made a joint statement proposing discussion of a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) regarding the future use of the Rutherford County landfill. Watch the video BFI’s request to dismiss its appeal has no bearing on the City’s lawsuit against BFI and Republic Services under the federal Clean Air Act and Clean Water Act, through which the City hopes to remedy multiple environmental issues at Middle Point Landfill. Reports of odor issues can still be sent to our Odor Management Portal Long-fought Victory for Murfreesboro Residents February 2025: After nearly four years of litigation, BFI Waste Systems of Tennessee has decided to stop fighting for a 99-acre expansion of Middle Point Landfill. We consider this a victory for the residents of Murfreesboro, especially those residing near the formerly planned expansion. Proposed Landfill Settlement Details July 24, 2025: The City of Murfreesboro released the details of a proposed settlement agreement with BFI Waste Systems of Tennessee, LLC, and Republic Services, Inc., (“BFI/Republic”) that would resolve the lawsuit filed by the City over the environmental impact of Middle Point Landfill. Murfreesboro City Council will vote to approve or reject the settlement at a public meeting to be held at 6:00 p.m. on July 31, 2025, at Murfreesboro City Hall. If accepted, the settlement would provide the following: Construction of a treatment system to reduce levels of PFAS (per- and polyfluoroalkyl substances), also known as “forever chemicals,” in MPLF’s main stormwater outfall to the East Fork Stones River and routine sampling of other outfalls, groundwater, and springs for forever chemicals with the possibility of additional treatment. Monthly sampling for forever chemicals in MPLF’s landfill leachate discharged to the City’s sewer and for a study of other potential sources of forever chemicals discharging to the sewer system. A study of pretreatment options for removal of forever chemicals from MPLF’s leachate before the discharge to the City’s sewer. Construction of a pretreatment system by Republic/BFI to remove forever chemicals from the leachate sent to the City if future regulations limit the amount of forever chemicals in the City’s effluent from its wastewater treatment plant to the West Fork Stones River. A detailed gas and odor management plan, overseen by the City, that goes beyond regulatory benchmarks by requiring specific actions to address landfill gas escaping from the landfill and operation and maintenance problems with the gas collection and control system. A new odor complaint portal shared by the City and Republic/BFI with a requirement for the landfill to immediately investigate, document, and address complaints, if feasible. Approval or rejection of the settlement has no bearing on the City’s stance on landfill expansion. The city remains opposed to any expansion of the Middle Point Landfill’s footprint or any attempt to expand vertically to extend its life. The City of Murfreesboro will have no further comment on the settlement until the City Council votes to approve or reject the settlement on the evening of July 31, 2025. A more detailed summary and the settlement documents can be found here: Summary of Proposed Settlement Agreement Settlement Agreement - Proposed City Council Votes to Reject Proposed Settlement Agreement July 31, 2025: The Murfreesboro City Council voted to reject the proposed settlement agreement with BFI Waste Systems and Republic Services (“Republic/BFI”) related to the environmental impact of Middle Point Landfill. The proposed settlement with Republic/BFI would have only applied to the landfill’s impact on air and water quality, not Republic/BFI’s desire to expand. In a separate vote, the City Council unanimously passed a resolution opposing any expansion of landfill capacity, either horizontally onto the closed Rutherford County landfill property or vertically, increasing the height to lengthen its lifetime. This decision to reject the settlement reflects the City's unwavering commitment to its citizens and the environment. Though the proposed settlement contains the most favorable terms that Republic/BFI would agree to, the Council believes that these did not go far enough to protect citizens' air and water. The City believes the best way to safeguard residents' lives and property is to present the case to a jury. Republic/BFI has not demonstrated to the Council through the settlement that it could reliably control the air and water pollution from the landfill, and considering its history, that Republic/BFI would follow through on its promises. Rejecting this settlement will allow the City to pursue a just remedy for its citizens in a court of law. The City stands willing to fight to stop the harm that this landfill has caused, and continues to cause, our community. City Council Agenda Center Online Payments Maps Public Transit Permits Stay Connected Videos Contact Us City of Murfreesboro 111 West Vine Street Murfreesboro, TN 37130 Phone: 615-893-5210 Contact Us Staff Directory Email the Webmaster Helpful Links Bids & RFPs Budget and Financial Reports Business Licenses City Council Upcoming Public Hearings City Schools City Manager Civil Rights/ADA Emergency Preparedness Homeless Outreach Support Team (H.O.S.T.) Jobs N Thompson Lane Construction Project New Salem Highway Construction Project Open Finance Portal Planning Com. Upcoming Public Hearings Public Comment Form Public Records Special Event Guidelines Traffic Cameras Water Resources Development Spotlight /QuickLinks.aspx Home Accessibility Copyright Notices Privacy Policy Employee Portal Login /QuickLinks.aspx Government Websites by CivicPlus® Loading Loading Do Not Show Again Close Arrow Left Arrow Right [] Slideshow Left Arrow Slideshow Right Arrow