Former Blaylock & Brown Construction, Inc. Landfill in Tennessee Skip to Main Content Go to TN.gov Go to TN.gov Section Go to Environment & Conservation (TDEC) Program Areas Recycling Markets Air Archaeology Bureau of Conservation Energy Environmental Stewardship Tennessee Geological Survey Mineral & Geologic Resources Natural Areas Outdoor Recreation Policy & Planning Radiological Health Remediation Branch Small Business Environmental Assistance Waste Management Branch Underground Storage Tanks Water Permitting Air Permits Archaeology Permit Mineral & Geologic Resources Permits Natural Areas License and Permits Radiological Health Licenses and Registrations Waste Permits Water Permits Other Permits Efficiency Reports Public Participation Air Notices & Hearings Energy Notices & Hearings Mineral & Geologic Notices & Hearings Natural Areas Notices & Hearings Radiation Notices & Hearings Remediation Notices & Hearings TN State Parks Notices & Hearings UST Notices & Hearings Waste Notices & Hearings Water Notices & Hearings TDEC General Notices About Communications Leadership Stakeholder Engagement External Affairs Boards & Commissions Financial Assurance Grants Department Policies Vendor Opportunities Employment & Internships TDEC Annual Reports Contact Field Offices Ask TDEC Questions Public Records Request Customer Service Survey Language Assistance Calendar of Events American Rescue Plan (ARP) Success Stories TDEC Newsroom Print This Page Print This Page Go to Search We are reorganizing pages for a better experience. We appreciate your patience! Solid Waste Program Landfill Operators Certification Training (LOCT) Former Blaylock & Brown Construction, Inc. Landfill Pending and Final Permit Documents for Review Statewide Petroleum Incident Logging System (SPILS) Engineering Report Waste Tire Hauler Program Former Blaylock and Brown Construction, Inc. Class III Landfill Waste Management Branch Main Page Archive Section The Former Blaylock and Brown Construction, Inc. (BBC) Class III Landfill (formerly known as Eplex) is located in Shelby County at 10636 Shelton Road, Collierville, Tennessee. This Class III Landfill was permitted for the disposal of landscaping/land clearing waste, and construction and demolition waste. The BBC has held a Class III Landfill permit at this facility since 1999 . On December 14, 2022, due to unforeseen circumstances that occurred in 2022, the BBC advised the Tennessee Department of Environment and Conservation (TDEC)  that there were not enough funds to continue operations or to follow through with permitted closure and post-closure obligations. TDEC immediately began working with remaining facility personnel to cover any exposed areas of waste with soil and put the landfill into an interim closure status. TDEC then began working on collecting information to use for a final cap closure plan and engineering design. As stated above, TDEC is working on the closure of the facility. The preliminary construction plans for the facility were presented at a public meeting on June 26, 2023 , and can be viewed in the Archived section of this page. Operations ceased in November 2023, and TDEC plans to complete the grading portion of the closure in 2023 and the final closure construction in the calendar year 2024. It is anticipated that the final closure will be completed by year-end 2024. TDEC will provide facility closure and post-closure information and updates through this website. Construction updates, groundwater reports, presentation slides, and other information have been collected below for easy reference. Additional information on the facility’s permit history can be viewed in the Dataviewer . Update: July 26, 2024 – Phase II Construction Construction of the final cap (Phase II) of Blaylock and Brown Landfill will commence on August 15. The construction is expected to be complete in October 2025.  During that time, the contractor will be constructing enhanced stormwater infrastructure, verifying the existing 12 inches of cover (placing material where necessary), placing eighteen inches of low-permeability compacted clay, placing twelve inches of vegetative cover, and vegetating the landfill footprint (a total of 42 inches of earthen material).  It is not anticipated that waste will be encountered during the construction, and odors are not expected. If odors are encountered, the contractor will utilize an odor-neutralizing agent to remediate the odors. It is anticipated that approximately 165,000 cubic yards of soil will be imported to the site over the duration of the project.  The contractor will work with the Town of Collierville to ensure that truck traffic travels along the most appropriate route to avoid traffic disruptions.  This information was presented during a town hall meeting on July 11, 2024 , and is located in the Archive section of this page. Update: August 31, 2024 Update: August 31, 2023 - Construction Regrading of the top deck to promote drainage commenced on August 14 th .  Through August 25 th , approximately 30,000 cubic yards of stockpiled material was moved into the landfill.  During that time, our contractor deployed over 3,000 gallons of odor-neutralizing agent in an attempt to counter some of the potential odors that are escaping the sort pile.  Our contractors will continue to evaluate and use the odor-neutralizing agent to minimize off-site odors as the sort pile is incorporated into the landfill.  Based on the progress through August 31 st , our estimates show us being about 30% complete for the Phase I project and close to 50% complete in moving the sort pile into the landfill. Update: November 1, 2023 Update: November 1, 2023 As of October 27, Phase I of the closure of the Blaylock & Brown Class III Landfill has been completed.  Phase I included relocation of wastes outside of the footprint into the landfill, covering with a minimum of one foot of intermediate cover, and revegetation.  The project was completed ahead of schedule and all disturbed areas have been seeded for revegetation. TDEC will continue twice-weekly inspections until vegetation is established and other inspections after vegetation is established. A final closure system has been selected for the E-Plex Landfill.  An environmentally protective, regulatory-prescribed Class III soil cap will be used as the final closure system for the facility.  Based on the volume of soil required for this 70-acre project, it’s estimated that the project may extend into the 2025 calendar year.  The design for this Cap System is currently underway.  Solid Management expects to have the design completed by the end of 2023, with a bid package developed in early 2024, and Contractor selection before May 2024.  It is our goal to have this project under construction by late April / early May 2024. TDEC will discuss with the Town of Collierville whether another public meeting is appropriate for the Phase II project, and if there is interest, will hold another meeting in early 2024 to present the details of the final closure design and construction. Photo 1 erosion control seeding and straw layout Photo 1 of road through Blaylock and Brown Landfill Archive This section contains presentations, reports, and other documents related to this project that were created and posted prior to the April 24, 2026, start date for the Title II Section 508, requiring government agencies to have all web content ADA-compliant, and are, as such, identified as archived. Public Meeting June 26, 2023- Presentation (Archived) Public Meeting July 11, 2024- Presentation (Archived) First Semi-Annual 2023 Groundwater Detection Monitoring Report (Archived) Second Semi-Annual 2023 Groundwater Detection Monitoring Report (Archived) First Semi-Annual 2024 Groundwater Detection Monitoring Report (Archived) Second Semi-Annual 2024 Groundwater Detection Monitoring Report (Archived) First Semi-Annual 2025 Groundwater Detection Monitoring Report (Archived) Email Date Subject 7/28/2023 Notice of Section of Phase I Contractor (Archived) 9/18/2024 IFC Drawings (Archived) 9/18/2024 Proposed Haul Route (Archived) Contact Brian Wolf 615-946-7772 Solid.Waste@tn.gov This Page Last Updated: April 10, 2026 at 3:49 PM Social Media facebook youtube linkedin Programs Air Environmental Stewardship Solid Waste Underground Storage Tanks Water Resources Accessibility Dataviewers Employment and Internships Enforcement Orders Grants Non-Discrimination Featured Links TDEC Annual Reports Field Offices Natural Areas State Parks The Tennessee Conservationist Partner Links TN Historical Commission Sustainable Tourism TN Promise U.S. EPA Department of Environment & Conservation David W. Salyers, P.E., P.G. Davy Crockett Tower 500 James Robertson Parkway Nashville, TN 37243 (888) 891-TDEC (8332) Email Questions to TDEC Flag Status Chat Help Translate Font Size a- Normal A+ TN.gov Services TN.gov Directory Transparent TN Web Policies Mobile App About Tennessee Title VI Accessibility Help & Contact Survey Close