Knoxville Tennessee Environmental Field Office
Skip to Main Content
Go to TN.gov
Go to TN.gov
Section
Go to Environment & Conservation (TDEC)
Program Areas
Recycling Markets
Air
Archaeology
Bureau of Conservation
Energy
Environmental Stewardship
Tennessee Geological Survey
Mineral & Geologic Resources
Natural Areas
Outdoor Recreation
Policy & Planning
Radiological Health
Remediation Branch
Small Business Environmental Assistance
Waste Management Branch
Underground Storage Tanks
Water
Permitting
Air Permits
Archaeology Permit
Mineral & Geologic Resources Permits
Natural Areas License and Permits
Radiological Health Licenses and Registrations
Waste Permits
Water Permits
Other Permits
Efficiency Reports
Public Participation
Air Notices & Hearings
Energy Notices & Hearings
Mineral & Geologic Notices & Hearings
Natural Areas Notices & Hearings
Radiation Notices & Hearings
Remediation Notices & Hearings
TN State Parks Notices & Hearings
UST Notices & Hearings
Waste Notices & Hearings
Water Notices & Hearings
TDEC General Notices
About
Communications
Leadership
Stakeholder Engagement
External Affairs
Boards & Commissions
Financial Assurance
Grants
Department Policies
Vendor Opportunities
Employment & Internships
TDEC Annual Reports
Contact
Field Offices
Ask TDEC Questions
Public Records Request
Customer Service Survey
Language Assistance
Calendar of Events
American Rescue Plan (ARP)
Success Stories
TDEC Newsroom
Print This Page
Print This Page
Go to Search
We are reorganizing pages for a better experience. We appreciate your patience!
Field Offices
Chattanooga
Columbia
Cookeville
Jackson
Johnson City
Knoxville
Memphis
Nashville
Field Office Map
Knoxville Environmental Field Office
3711 Middlebrook Pike, Suite 101, Knoxville, TN 37921 | Phone: (865) 594-6035 | FAX: (865) 594-6105
Counties Served
Anderson, Blount, Campbell, Claiborne, Cocke, Grainger, Hamblen, Jefferson, Knox, Loudon, Monroe, Morgan, Roane, Scott, Sevier, Union
Interested in TDEC News affecting the Knoxville Region?
​
Sign up for TDEC's Knoxville Regional e-newsletter
If you are uncertain who to contact, please call our main line at
(865) 594-6035
and the receptionist will direct your call.
External Affairs
The Office of External Affairs serves as TDEC’s primary point of contact for the general public and stakeholders in a respective region and serves as the public outreach arm for the Commissioner’s Office.
Regional Director
James Tinch
(865) 314-1539
James.Tinch@tn.gov
Administrative Services
Administrative staff supports all divisions within the Knoxville Field Office, and also provides space and facilities management and inner-office human resource needs.
The administrative staff is also responsible for coordinating all Freedom of Information Act (FOIA), public records requests.  If you are unable to locate the information you are looking for listed under a specific division below or from an online data viewer or database, you may submit an information request for any division using either of the following links:
Submit an Ask TDEC information request
Submit a Public Records Request
Manager:
Katie DuBrutz
(865) 594-5616
Kathryn.DuBrutz@tn.gov
Air Pollution Control
The
Division of Air Pollution Control
maintains the purity of the air resources of the State of Tennessee. They establish emissions standards and procedure requirements to monitor industries in the State through permits and serve as the administrative agency of the Tennessee Air Pollution Control Board and address issues of open burning.
View the Air Pollution Permit Database
-
Data Viewer Note:
Internet Explorer is no longer supported for our Data Viewer applications. Please use one of the following browsers: Chrome, Fire Fox or Edge.
Visit the Knox County Air Quality Management Division Website
or call 865-215-5900 - Knox County’s Air Quality Management Division is primarily responsible for air pollution and quality issues within the county, including burn permits. Questions or concerns regarding Knox County should be addressed to this division.
Visit the Burn Safe TN Website for Burn Permits
- For burn permits please contact the Tennessee Department of Agriculture, Burn Safe TN or call the phone number for the correct county.
Air Pollution Control Field Office general email
APC.KnoxEFO@tn.gov
Manager:
Jarrett Rudd
(865) 323-3676
Jarrett.L.Rudd@tn.gov
Mineral & Geologic Resources
The
Division of Mineral and Geologic Resources
is responsible for ensuring the environmentally sound management, protection and documentation of the state’s mineral, land and energy resources for all Tennesseans and future generations. DMGR is the regulatory authority for Mining and Oil & Gas within the state. In addition, DMGR houses the Abandoned Mine Land Program and the Tennessee Geological Survey.
View the Mineral & Geologic Resources Dataviewer
Managers:
Abandoned Mine Land Program / Land Reclamation:
Trevor Martin
(865) 207-8995
Trevor.Martin@tn.gov
Geological Survey:
Peter Lemiszki
(865) 594-5596
Peter.Lemiszki@tn.gov
Mining:
Daniel Lawrence
(865) 803-1206
Daniel.Lawrence@tn.gov
Oil & Gas:
George Stephens
(865) 221-3214
George.Stephens@tn.gov
Division of Natural Areas
The
Division of Natural Areas
manages designated state natural areas across Tennessee, issues permits for ginseng dealers and certifies wild ginseng root for export, maintains a database on the distribution and ecology of rare plants, animals, and ecological communities across Tennessee, assists the public and businesses with rare species reviews for site developments, oversees applications for those desiring to sell or export Tennessee listed endangered plant species, and issues permits for the collection of biological or geological materials, air or water samples, or installation of research equipment on State Parks or Designated State Natural Areas.
East Regional Stewardship Ecologist:
Russell Fulcher
(865) 361-0142
Russell.L.Fulcher@tn.gov
Division of Natural Areas Contacts
Office of Outdoor Recreation
The
Office of Outdoor Recreation
provides parks and recreation grants, parks and recreation planning, and parks and recreation technical assistance to governments in Tennessee. The grant programs also support and protect the natural and cultural resources of our state park system and provide funding for community park development, trails development and land acquisition. The division also houses the state’s Greenways and Trails program, which encourages Tennessee communities to save special green spaces.
Assistant Director - Recreation Services:
April Johnson
(865) 292-5656
April.Johnson@tn.gov
East TN Recreation Consultant:
Kirsten Navoni
(423) 290-6047
Kirsten.Navoni@tn.gov
Radiological Health, X-Ray and Radioactive Material Inspections
The
Division of Radiological Health
is responsible for protecting Tennesseans and the environment from the hazards associated with ionizing radiation. They regulate the use and possession of radioactive materials and radiation producing machines, and respond to accidents involving radiation.
Manager:
Becki Harisis
(615) 981-4662
Becki.Harisis@tn.gov
Remediation, Hazardous Substance Site & Brownfields Cleanup
The
Division of Remediation
identifies and investigates hazardous substance sites, then uses practical and effective remedies to stabilize, remediate, contain, monitor, and maintain these sites, minimizing threats to public health, safety, and the environment. The division oversees work at a wide range of sites, which include National Priority List (NPL) Superfund sites, state inactive hazardous substance sites, brownfields, dry cleaners, and properties where methamphetamine was illegally manufactured.
Meth Contamination
The abuse and manufacture of illegal methamphetamine continues to be a statewide epidemic with law enforcement agencies encountering thousands of Clandestine Methamphetamine Laboratories (CML) in single-family homes, rental properties, hotel and motel rooms, automobiles and other vehicles. No matter where these laboratories are created or used, they all leave behind hazardous residue, which poses a threat to human health. In many cases, this methamphetamine residue renders a property 'Unsafe for Human Use'.
Tennessee Code Annotated 68-212 Part 5
allows the Tennessee Department of Environment & Conservation (TDEC) to develop
Meth Rule 0400-15-02
to determine when a property is 'Safe for Human Use' again following contamination by methamphetamine.
Manager:
Chrissy McNaughton
(865) 863-0270
Christina.McNaughton@tn.gov
Solid (Trash) & Hazardous Wastes
The
Division of Solid Waste Management
protects, improves, and promotes health and environmental quality thorough the responsive, effective oversight of waste management activities and the beneficial use of recovered materials. The division has several programs that deal with different kinds of waste, from solid to hazardous and from recyclables to food.
View the Solid Waste Management Database
-
Data Viewer Note:
Internet Explorer is no longer supported for our Data Viewer applications. Please use one of the following browsers: Chrome, Fire Fox or Edge.
Manager:
Harry McCann
(423) 293-8049
Harry.McCann@tn.gov
Petroleum Underground Storage Tank Facilities (e.g. Gas Stations)
The Division of Underground Storage Tanks protects human health and the environment by preventing future petroleum underground storage tank releases and remediating existing petroleum underground storage tank contamination from regulated tanks. The division also monitors and requires that citizens who have stored petroleum in regulated underground storage tanks, or who bring a new underground storage tank into use, notify the division.
Manager:
Holly Marlowe
(865) 320-6168
Holly.Marlowe@tn.gov
Division of Water Resources
The
Division of Water Resources
(DWR) manages, protects, and enhances the quality of the state’s water resources through voluntary, regulatory, and educational programs. The Division is divided into smaller sections by water resource topical area.
If you need assistance, please call our
main line phone number
(865) 594-6035
and the receptionist will transfer you to the appropriate person.
Manager:
Shari Winburn
(423) 736-2906
Shari.Winburn@tn.gov
DWR Helpful Links:
DWR Organizational Chart & Contact Information
Water Permitting
Septic Related Services
Contacts for Septic Related Inquiries
To speak with someone in the Knoxville Environmental Field Office regarding
septic related inquiries or need assistance with forms
, please call
(865) 594-6035
.
Data & Map Viewers
This Page Last Updated: October 2, 2026 at 4:30 PM
Social Media
facebook
youtube
linkedin
Programs
Air
Environmental Stewardship
Solid Waste
Underground Storage Tanks
Water
Resources
Accessibility
Dataviewers
Employment and Internships
Enforcement Orders
Grants
Non-Discrimination
Featured Links
TDEC Annual Reports
Field Offices
Natural Areas
State Parks
The Tennessee Conservationist
Partner Links
TN Historical Commission
Sustainable Tourism
TN Promise
U.S. EPA
Department of Environment & Conservation
David W. Salyers, P.E., P.G.
Davy Crockett Tower
500 James Robertson Parkway
Nashville, TN 37243
(888) 891-TDEC (8332)
Email Questions to TDEC
Flag Status
Chat
Help
Translate
Font Size
a-
Normal
A+
TN.gov Services
TN.gov Directory
Transparent TN
Web Policies
Mobile App
About Tennessee
Title VI
Accessibility
Help & Contact
Survey
Close
