Tap Score Customer Support
Skip to content
Free Shipping Today!
Shop Water Tests
By Source/Kit
City Water
Well Water
All Kits
Talk To An Expert
By Contaminant
Metals & Minerals
PFAS
Biology
Radiologicals
VOCS/SVOCS
Agriculture
Microplastics
All Specialized
Recommended for City Water
Recommended for Well Water
Science
Tap Score Science
Tap Score Report
Tap Score Algorithm
Certifications & Compliance
Company
About Tap Score
News & PR
Get Help
Activate a Kit
Shipping
Find the Right Test for You
Support & FAQ
Contaminant Glossary
Blog
Search
SIGN IN
Cart
Search
Sign In
Shop By Topic
Shop By Topic
City Water
Well Water
Rush Kits
For Business
View All
Shop By Contaminant
Shop By Contaminant
Metals & Minerals
PFAS
Biology
Radiologicals
VOCs & SVOCs
Agriculture
Microplastics
View All
Science
Science
Tap Score Science
Tap Score Report
Tap Score Algorithm
Certifications & Compliance
Company
Company
About Tap Score
News & PR
Affiliates Program
Support
Support
Activate a Kit
Shipping
Find the Right Test
Support & FAQ
Contaminant Glossary
Blog
Item added to your cart
CHECKOUT
CONTINUE SHOPPING
Customer Support
Search Topics
›
How can we help you?
Activate a Kit
Check Status
Chat Now
Email Us
You can email us via
support@mytapscore.com
or use this Contact form if you have a lot on your mind.
First Name
Last Name
Email Address
*
Phone Number
Company Name
Role/Title
Message
Submit
FAQ: Choosing The Right Test
What makes Tap Score special?
Tap Score gives you unbiased testing, certified labs, world-class support, professional scientific advice, personalized filtration recommendations and a sophisticated experience from beginning to end. It's why Tap Score is consistently ranked the #1 water testing service for homes and business.
I want to test my water for everything, can I?
No single test can check for every possible analyte in water, but a comprehensive lab test is the best place to start. Our comprehensive tests cover the contaminants and analytes that matter most based on your source water, whether that's city water, well water, spring water, or rainwater.
Explore our comprehensive water tests
to find the kit that best meets your needs.
How do I choose the best test for my needs?
You have 4 superb ways to find the best test kit for your needs. Shop
Core Test Kits
or
Specialized Tests,
go to the
Contaminant Glossary
or
Customize a Test Kit
. Each test panel has been named and curated by water quality experts to target the most relevant concerns.
How many samples can I take with one kit?
One. Each testing package is designed for a single sample at one location (even if it comes with 4 bottles!) If you want to test your water at multiple locations, you'd need multiple testing packages.
What does it cost to test my water?
We show all test kit prices with ALL costs included (sampling materials, testing, results report-back, sample disposal and shipping both ways).  The cost of water testing depends on what you’re testing for and other specifications you may have. There are basic testing packages and there are also very advanced ones.
Does my test kit expire?
Yes, test kits will expire one year after the order date. Please mail your samples to the lab for testing before then to ensure your kit remains valid and your samples can be processed.
Can I order kits in bulk?
Whether you're ordering in bulk, shipping to multiple locations, or want white-label kits for your own brand, we can help. Explore our
bulk and professional testing options
or get in touch with our team.
Water Sample Collection
Which sampling method should I use?
Choosing a sampling method is all about knowing what information you are most interested in. A
first draw
sample emphasizes impacts from your plumbing. A
fully flushed
sample emphasizes the "raw" water quality as it comes from the source.
Should I test before or after my installed filtration device?
There is no right or wrong answer, different sampling locations will tell you different things.
Before
gives you information on the untreated/raw water quality, while
after
provides information on the water quality post-filtration.
Where should I take my sample?
Choosing a sampling location is all about what information you are most interested in learning. If you ordered only one test kit, then we recommend collecting your sample from the location where you drink the most water. Your ingestion of water is normally your greatest exposure to water-borne health concerns.
Do you come and test my water?
No. Our testing kits are designed for you to easily take your own samples and return them to a certified lab facility using the pre-paid shipping label(s) in your kit.
Shipping Questions
What shipping carriers do you use?
All kits ship via FedEx.
How long does it take for my order to ship?
Kits ordered with standard shipping typically ship within 1-2 business days from our warehouse in California and arrive in 2-4 days.
Can I upgrade the shipping speed for my kit?
Yes! You can select a shipping speed upgrade–including overnight shipping–at check out.
How late can I place an overnight delivery order?
Overnight orders for next day delivery must be placed before 3 PM PST on weekdays.
When should I ship my kit back to the lab team?
The best day to ship your test kits back to the laboratory is a Monday or Tuesday. This helps avoid any delays due to the weekend.
My kit has an overnight return label, can I ship it on a Friday?
No. Kits with overnight return labels should be shipped Monday through Wednesday to ensure the kit arrives at the laboratory in a timely manner.
Do you ship to Canada?
Yes, we ship a select few kits to Canada. Ask our team or order directly from our
Canadian Collection
. Tip: Make sure not to be on a US VPN while ordering Canadian kits.
Lab Turnaround Time (TAT)
How is the turnaround time measured?
A kit's turnaround time (TAT) is measured in business days from when the lab receives the sample.
How long does it take to get results?
Most testing is completed in 3-5 lab business days.You can check each kit’s product page for specifics.
I need results ASAP, how can I get rush testing?
If you are on a tight timeline, then check out the
RUSH collection
. RUSH kits have a 3 business day turnaround time from when the lab receives the sample and includes an overnight shipping label to the laboratory.
Can I change the speed of analysis after I have ordered?
No. Testing timelines are specific to each kit and cannot be changed after an order is processed. If you’re in a hurry, we suggest ordering a RUSH test kit.
Tracking Your Test Status
How do I activate my kit?
To activate your kit, follow the instructions in the box or follow this tutorial:
Tap Score Test Kit Activation
.
How do I check my report status?
Track your sample(s) status on your
Tap Score Account
.
When will I receive my results?
Most testing is completed in 3-5 lab business days. Some panels require additional analytical time either because they are inherently more intensive or because Quality Control requires steps to be repeated. You can check each kit’s product page for a time estimate (TAT) of how many business days the lab will need to analyze your samples after they arrive.
Why are my results later than expected?
Testing instruments are extremely sensitive and some analytes can require extra time on the instruments to ensure the accuracy of your results.
My Report is not showing up on my Account. Where is it?
99% of the time, if you don't see your Report in your Account it is because you've logged in with a different email address than you used for you purchase. Make sure to log in with the same email address you used during test kit checkout.
Where is my test kit?
Make sure you have checked your shipment tracking information (
SimpleLab account
). If a package is marked as delivered but you don't have it, then check with neighbors to see it was misdelivered. If you still can’t locate the kit, reach out to us via email or live chat.
Understanding Your Report
Is the report easy to understand?
Your report(s) will include detailed analysis plus visual representation of your water’s health. Each report also shows useful information about the analytes tested and their potential impacts. More help is also available phone call, via live chat and email should you have any questions about your results.
See an example report here.
How do I receive my results?
Once your results are ready, you will be notified by email. You can then sign into your SimpleLab account to review the HTML and PDF versions of your results with lab attachments included.
What do my results include?
Your results include detailed, quantified levels (PPM, PPB, PPT etc) for all tested analytes as well as information on how they related to tastes, plumbing and health impacts. Reports will also include a dedicated treatment section tailored to your results.
What if I have questions about my results?
You can call or email our team at
hello@mytapscore.com
or you can chat with us live! We are here to help.
What is the HGL?
In addition to MCLs, and MCLG's Tap Score Reports include a Health Guidance Level (HGL). The HGL is the concentration of a contaminant at which there is no known health impact. HGL represents the MOST conservative evaluation of water quality. It reflects a combination of recommendations from State, Federal and other health department research guidelines. HGL is not an enforceable standard for water systems. When there is no HGL, that means there is insufficient research on the contaminant’s health risks. (SLR -> HGL)
Filtration & Treatment
Are Tap Score filtration recommendations unbiased?
Yes we are 100% unbiased and 100% private. We do NOT make money selling filters and we do NOT collect any commission making your recommendations.
Does Tap Score recommend filtration solutions?
Each report comes with a dedicated treatment and filtration section that is tailored to help you reduce the specific contaminants found in your water sample.
How are filters recommended?
We provide you with unbiased treatment recommendations based on the contaminants found in your sample, your home preferences, budget and our own ongoing research into treatment technologies and customer satisfaction with filtration brands and solutions.
Does Tap Score sell filtration?
No, we do not sell any filtration products or systems ourselves. Nor do we take any sales commission. We simply want to point you in the right direction.
Is my filtration system working
The only way to truly know whether or not your filter is working is to test your water. Consider ordering two test kits, so that you can analyze your water before AND after your filter.
Your Tap Score Account
How do I set up my free Tap Score Account?
Creating a Tap Score account is free and easy to set up. Click
here
to set yours up in just a few clicks.
Why should I get a Tap Score Account?
When you place your first Tap Score order, you'll be invited to create a free account, aka your home base for everything related to your water tests. Your accounts make it easy to track your samples, view your lab reports, control your privacy and get personalized support from our water quality experts.
Why is my test not showing up on my account?
In order for your test to automatically appear on your Tap Score account, our system requires that the email used to purchase the test kit and the one used to create the account match. The kits and accounts are linked via that email.
What if I want custom water test kits for my business?
If you’re a business looking to set up a routine water testing program, or you're interested in customizing a test kit program for your team we recommend SimpleLab: Contact
sales@gosimplelab.com
or visit the
SimpleLab website
to get started.
Laboratory Services
Why are there so many laboratories?
Various water testing laboratories specialize in different ways. There are many types of analytical instruments, methods for using them, and many analytes to test. NO single facility can specialize in everything.
How accurate are my results?
Analytical instrumentation is extremely accurate when reporting concentration data. Most variability in sample testing comes from changes in the sample itself (time of day, year, sampling method).
When can I contact the lab facility directly?
Tap Score enables lab technicians to focus on what they do best, testing water. Meanwhile, we deliver on the promise of great customer service, expert treatment advice and timely support. If you need to speak with a technician, contact us first.
Which lab will my samples go to?
Depending on your sampling time, location and testing panel requested, your samples will be shipped to the optimal laboratory that meets your needs (turnaround time, instrumentation, methods).
What about laboratory QA/QC?
Every Tap Score testing facility is certified and must follow certain QA/QC procedures specified by regulatory and accreditation bodies plus SimpleLab.
Laboratory Certifications
Is your laboratory certified?
All Tap Score testing is performed in the SimpleLab network of certified North American laboratories. This includes more than 200 certified facilities, and 1,000 EPA testing methods. Each facility is accredited by various accreditation bodies. Facility certifications and accreditations include those from ISO to NELAC/ELAP, Direct State, DoD, DoE, DoH and beyond. Need a specific certification? Let us know in advance of your order so that we can meet your needs accordingly.
Which facility will analyze my samples?
Your testing is assigned to the optimal laboratory based upon several factors: (1) your proximity to facility, (2) test analysis needed, and (3) how busy each specific lab is at the time of your purchase and sample collection. These measures ensure you get the fastest turnaround and best pricing.
Are you an EPA certified laboratory?
All Tap Score testing laboratories are certified in various ways (ISO, NELAC, State, DoD, etc). The Federal EPA itself validates many analytical methods, but does not certify individual laboratories. It gives that power to various other accrediting agencies and directly to the US States.
What is an ISO certified laboratory?
ISO is an international standard for testing laboratories created to ensure laboratories are producing precise and accurate test data. In additional to baseline ISO certifications, most Tap Score labs will also maintain NELAC, State, Federal EPA, DoD and other important program accreditaions.
Are my results private?
Yes. Results can only be viewed by yourself, but you can seamlessly share your results with anyone right from your report.
Not sure where to begin?
Find the right test for you.
Take our simple, two-step customization quiz to find the tests that best match your drinking water source and overall concerns.
Take The Quiz
Shop Water Tests
City Water Tests
Well Water Tests
Comprehensive Tests
Specialized Tests
All Tests
For Business
Bulk Testing
Our Science
Tap Score Science
Tap Score Report
Tap Score Algorithm
Certifications & Compliance
Our Company
About Tap Score
News & PR
Become an Affiliate
Resources
Sign In
Activate a Kit
Shipping
Find the Right Test
Support & FAQ
Contaminant Glossary
Blog
CUSTOMER SUPPORT
Facebook
Instagram
linkedin
TikTok
YouTube
Call Us Today:
510-485-9396
Terms of Service
Privacy Policy
Return Policy
Do not sell or share my personal information
©
2026
, All Rights Reserved  Tap Score by
SimpleLab
Choosing a selection results in a full page refresh.
×
